README.md, before:

# Trigger jenkins job action

This action triggers a given Jenkins job when called

## Inputs

### 'JENKINS_USER'

**Required** The name of the jenkins user that will trigger the Jenkins job (The user must have the neccessary permissions).

### 'JENKINS_TOKEN'

**Required** Jenkins API token. Follow these instructions to generate a token for the jenkins user that will trigger the job: https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2018/07/02/new-api-token-system/.


**Important** `JENKINS_USER` and `JENKINS_TOKEN` should be declared in repository secrets for security purposes. The rest of the variables can be declared as envs.

### 'JENKINS_HOST'

**Required** Jenkins base url.

### 'JENKINS_JOB'

**Required** Jenkins job location that will be built. Ex: `JENKINS_JOB = utils/testPipeline/helloWorld` makes reference to the `helloWorld` job inside the `utils/testPipeline/` directory.

### 'JENKINS_PARAMS'

**Optional** Parameters to be passed to the jenkins jobs if they are required. they must be written in this format: `param=value`. If there is more than one parameter, they must be sparated by `&` (Example: `param1=value1&param2=value2` )

## Example usage

Example usage of the action. This workflow triggers a Jenkins job  when a change is pushed to the repository.

```yaml
on: push

jobs:
  launch_jenkins_job:
    name: trigger jenkins job
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      -
        name: Trigger Jenkins Job
        uses: sbitio/trigger-jenkins-job@master
        with:
          JENKINS_USER: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_USER }}
          JENKINS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_TOKEN }}
          JENKINS_HOST: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_HOST }}
          JENKINS_JOB: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_JOB }}
```

---

Example usage of the action to trigger a parametized job.

```yaml
on: push

env:
  JENKINS_HOST: https://jenkins.example.com/ ## jenkins base url
  JENKINS_JOB: testJobs/HelloWorld ## builds the HelloWorld job inside testJobs
  JENKINS_PARAMS: environment=dev

jobs:
  launch_jenkins_job:
    name: trigger jenkins job
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      -
        name: Trigger Jenkins Job
        uses: sbitio/trigger-jenkins-job@master
        with:
          JENKINS_USER: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_USER }}
          JENKINS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_TOKEN }}
          JENKINS_HOST: ${{ env.JENKINS_HOST }}
          JENKINS_JOB: ${{ env.JENKINS_JOB }}
          JENKINS_PARAMS: ${{ env.JENKINS_PARAMS }}
```

Commit message:

Update readme with instructions on how to execute a jenkins job without parameters

README.md, after:

# Trigger jenkins job action

This action triggers a given Jenkins job when called

## Inputs

### 'JENKINS_USER'

**Required** The name of the jenkins user that will trigger the Jenkins job (The user must have the neccessary permissions).

### 'JENKINS_TOKEN'

**Required** Jenkins API token. Follow these instructions to generate a token for the jenkins user that will trigger the job: https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2018/07/02/new-api-token-system/.


**Important** `JENKINS_USER` and `JENKINS_TOKEN` should be declared in repository secrets for security purposes. The rest of the variables can be declared as envs.

### 'JENKINS_HOST'

**Required** Jenkins base url.

### 'JENKINS_JOB'

**Required** Jenkins job location that will be built. Ex: `JENKINS_JOB = utils/testPipeline/helloWorld` makes reference to the `helloWorld` job inside the `utils/testPipeline/` directory.

### 'JENKINS_PARAMS'

**Optional** Parameters to be passed to the jenkins jobs if they are required. they must be written in this format: `param=value`. If there is more than one parameter, they must be sparated by `&` (Example: `param1=value1&param2=value2` ).
If the job has no defined parameters then `JENKINS_PARAMS` must be given the value `no`, and if the job does have parameters but you want to use the default values then the input can be left empty.

## Example usage

Example usage of the action. This workflow triggers a Jenkins job  when a change is pushed to the repository.

```yaml
on: push

jobs:
  launch_jenkins_job:
    name: trigger jenkins job
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      -
        name: Trigger Jenkins Job
        uses: sbitio/trigger-jenkins-job@master
        with:
          JENKINS_USER: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_USER }}
          JENKINS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_TOKEN }}
          JENKINS_HOST: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_HOST }}
          JENKINS_JOB: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_JOB }}
```

---

Example usage of the action to trigger a parametized job.

```yaml
on: push

env:
  JENKINS_HOST: https://jenkins.example.com/ ## jenkins base url
  JENKINS_JOB: testJobs/HelloWorld ## builds the HelloWorld job inside testJobs
  JENKINS_PARAMS: environment=dev

jobs:
  launch_jenkins_job:
    name: trigger jenkins job
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      -
        name: Trigger Jenkins Job
        uses: sbitio/trigger-jenkins-job@master
        with:
          JENKINS_USER: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_USER }}
          JENKINS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_TOKEN }}
          JENKINS_HOST: ${{ env.JENKINS_HOST }}
          JENKINS_JOB: ${{ env.JENKINS_JOB }}
          JENKINS_PARAMS: ${{ env.JENKINS_PARAMS }}
```

Example usage of the action to trigger a unparametized job.
```yaml
on: push

env:
  JENKINS_HOST: https://jenkins.example.com/ ## jenkins base url
  JENKINS_JOB: testJobs/HelloWorld ## builds the HelloWorld job inside testJobs
  JENKINS_PARAMS: no

jobs:
  launch_jenkins_job:
    name: trigger jenkins job
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      -
        name: Trigger Jenkins Job
        uses: sbitio/trigger-jenkins-job@master
        with:
          JENKINS_USER: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_USER }}
          JENKINS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.JENKINS_TOKEN }}
          JENKINS_HOST: ${{ env.JENKINS_HOST }}
          JENKINS_JOB: ${{ env.JENKINS_JOB }}
          JENKINS_PARAMS: ${{ env.JENKINS_PARAMS }}
```
